Changes in Version 0.15-1

  o a bug in person.parameter() has been fixed that caused the estimation to crash in some cases

  o a bug in thresholds() has been fixed that caused the routine to crash

Changes in Version 0.15-0

  o the RaschSampler package has been merged into eRm for convenience (still available as a separate package)

Changes in Version 0.14-5

  o the package is now byte-compiled by default.

  o some statistics added to NPtest, T7 and T7a removed.

  o fixed a bug in plotPWmap().

  o fixed the "mplot" argument in plotting routines.

  o fixed the split-criterion "all.r" in LRtest.
  
  o deleted all usages of data() in examples, since eRm uses "lazy data".

Changes in Version 0.14-4

  o when calling NPtest the RaschSampler can now be
    controlled more spcifically (burn_in, step, seed).

  o various improvements and bugfixes for LLRA related functions.

  o person parameter values can be extracted now for all persons using coef().
    Additionally, in-/exclusion of extrapolated values (for 0 and perfect
    scores) can be controlled via the argument "extrapolated".

  o LRtest now computes standard errors (se = TRUE) by default.

  o plotDIF now plots 'difficulties' for all models (formerly, 'easiness'
    parameters were plotted for Rasch models).

Changes in Version 0.14-3

  o minor bug fixed in plotGOF, where on rare occasions
    confidence ellipses were plotted together with control
    lines (spotted by Peter Parker)

  o improved labelling in plotjointICC

Changes in Version 0.14-2

  o warning regarding group assignment when using median
    or mean split removed from MLoef

  o modification in NPtest to split long output lines

  o changed the delimiters of plotDIF confidence intervals to
    pch = 20 (small bullet).

Changes in Version 0.14-1

  o new experimental functions to calculate and plot item
    and test information (by Thomas Rusch)

  o bug fixed in the calculation of item and person Infit t
    and Outfit t (hint from Rainer Alexandrowicz).

  o eRm no longer depends on the RaschSampler package. However,
    it must be installed to use NPtest.

  o changed the delimiters of plotDIF confidence intervals to
    pch = 20.

Changes in Version 0.14-0

  o new (wrapper) function LLRA for fitting linear logistic
    models with relaxed assumptions including utilities for
    preparing data (llra.datprep), setting up (build_W) and
    modifying (collapse_W) design matrices, comparing llra
    models (anova) and plotting results (plotTR and plotGR)
    (by Thomas Rusch)

  o 'exact' version of the Martin-Loef test for binary items and
    arbitrary splits added as method to NPtest

  o in plotGOF confidence ellipses can now be drawn for
    subsets of items, optionally using different colours

  o new function plotDIF (by Kathrin Gruber): plots confidence
    intervals for item parameters estimated separately in
    subgroups, uses LR objects as input

  o adapted the MLoef function to work with polytomous data
    and more than two item groups

  o error checks in NPtest: (i) 0/full resposes for items
    meaningless for NPtest, (ii) group in method="T4" must
    be of type logical, (iii) specifying all items for
    T4 gives meaningless results.

  o warning regarding group assignment when using median
    split removed from LRtest and Waldtest

  o some modifications in plotPWmap: horizontal plotting,
    different default plotting symbols, option to change
    size of plotting symbols

  o bug in MLoef fixed (now using logs in calculating the
    person contributions)

  o eRm now depends on R >= 2.12.0

  o Latin1 encoding removed

  o bug in plotICC (always same title) fixed

Changes in Version 0.13-0

  o LLTM, LRSM, and LPCM work now for repeated measurement
    designs with treatment groups and missing values.

  o Rename vignette to 'eRm'.


Changes in Version 0.12-2

  o new function plotPWmap to plot Bond-and-Fox style
    pathway maps for the data by Julian Gilbey. Since
    calculation of the t-statistics requires calculation
    of the kurtosis of the standardized residuals,
    according changes to itemfit.ppar, personfit.ppar,
    pifit.internal, print.ifit, and print.pfit.

  o plotPImap patched by Julian Gilbey: length of item.subset
    did not match the documentation, warning stars did not all
    appear, pre-calculated person.parameter data can be passed
    to the function via pp, mis-ordered items can be coloured.
    some minor bugs fixed.

  o the optimizer can be changed to optim using fitctrl<-"optim"
    and reset to nlm (the default) with fitctrl<-"nlm"

  o value of LRtest now countains the list fitobj which contains
    the model objects according to the subgroups specified by
    splitcr

  o MLoef no longer supports missings values

Changes in Version 0.12-1

  o function invalid from package gtools integrated into eRm
    eRm no longer depends on gtools

Changes in Version 0.12-0

  o for RM, RSM, and PCM: eta parameters are now
    diplayed as difficulty parameters
    print and summary methods changed accordingly

  o new labeling of eta parameters in RM, RSM, and PCM.
    they now are labeled according to the estimated
    parameters for items (RM), items + categories (RSM),
    items x categories (PCM)

  o function MLoef for Martin-Loef-Test added

  o df in personfit and itemfit corrected

  o the logLik functions now extract the log-likelhood
    and df into objects of class logLik.eRm and loglik.ppar
    with elements loglik and df. the corresponding
    print methods have been modified accordingly.

  o function coef.ppar to extract person parameter estimates added

  o option for beta parameters added to coef.eRm

  o in confint.eRm: default parm = "beta"

  o minor modifications in the help file for IC()

  o plotPImap: revised rug added, bug concerning item.subset fixed,
    minor modifications to enhance readability

  o minor modifications in plotjointICC: allows for main title and colors,
    option legpos = FALSE suppresses legends, dev.new removed,
    legend = FALSE produced incorrect labeling

  o minor modifications in plotICC: allows for main title and colors,
    default coloring with col = NULL instead of NA for compatibility,
    option legpos = FALSE suppresses legends, mplot is now FALSE if
    only one item is specified

  o plot.ppar: dev.new removed

  o option 'visible' in print.ifit und print.pfit to allow for avoiding
    overly long output and for extraction of infit and outfit values
    (maybe changed to a coef method later)

  o strwrap() for NPtest print methods to break long lines

  o new methods IC.default and pmat.default for enhanced error messages

  o lazy loading package and datafiles

